the voyage started just like any other
the cargo ship ss cotopaxi is making
another journey to havana cuba
to deliver coal it's november 29th
1925. for captain meyer and his crew
leaving charleston port south carolina
it will be the last trip the ship
ever makes its route ran through the
bermuda triangle
two days into the trip the cotopaxi sent
out a distress signal
it got caught up in a strong tropical
storm
and turned over on its side the wind was
very strong
and there was powerful lightning as well
rain gradually filled the ship's hole
then there was a bright white flash and
the ship
disappeared without a trace later its
wreckage was found
in the gobi desert which is in a
completely different part of the world
all 32 crew members including the
captain were missing
of course the part about the gobi desert
is fictional
for one of his movies steven spielberg
came up with the idea that the ship was
moved there by aliens
still in real life the ship was never
found
and its crew really did disappear it was
officially declared missing a month
afterward
and nobody could find the wreck
it seems like a classic case of
mysterious things going on in the
bermuda triangle
but most mysteries are solved sooner or
later
in 2020 the cotopaxi was found
a man named michael barnett had moved to
florida to study shipwrecks off the
coast
one wreck in particular really caught
his attention
it was much larger than the others and
the locals called it the bear rack
it was about 40 miles from saint
augustine in northern florida
but no one had ever managed to identify
the rusty hull
so michael started to do some detective
work
he measured the size of the shipwreck
and started working through all the
information he could find
he researched hundreds of old newspapers
leave through
insurance records and looked at
artifacts found on the rack
after hundreds of hours of hard work
michael was sure
it was the codopexy but a few years
before
there had been a rumor that the same
ship had been found
off the coast of cuba the coast guard
found the wreck of a cargo ship
about the same size that looked a lot
like the one lost in 1925.
michael was sure they were wrong so he
teamed up with some science journalists
and kept investigating soon they
discovered something that seemed to
confirm michael's belief
divers found brass valves with the
letters sv on them
in the wreckage of the ship michael
suggested these initials referred to
scott valve manufacturing company
the headquarters of this company was in
michigan not far
from where the coat epoxy had been built
the company had probably supplied parts
for the cotopaxi
so the puzzle seemed to be solved the
bear wreck
was really the missing cargo ship but
michael still needed to work out why the
ship had sunk
did something mysterious really happen
to the cotopaxi
in the bermuda triangle later michael
found the testimony of the ship's
carpenter among some old papers
the carpenter claimed that the hatches
covering the coal on the ship
had been in a terrible condition before
it sank
repair work on the covers wasn't
finished before the crew got the order
to sail to cuba
so if the hatch covers were still broken
during the trip
water could have easily gotten on board
this water probably flooded the hole
during the tropical storm
this was the real reason why the
cotopaxi went down
there was really nothing mysterious
about it it was just a mistake
made by ordinary people but this is just
one example out of dozens
or even hundreds where ships and planes
have gone missing in the bermuda
triangle
we still can't explain some of these
incidents it seems like there really
is something weird going on there
one of these strange events happened in
a passenger jet was headed for miami
from san juan puerto rico
it disappeared in the same area as the
cotopaxi
the 32 people on board vanished without
a trace
the weather was clear throughout the
flight but experts think that
when the plane was about 50 miles from
the coast
it could have been hit by a strong wind
that knocked it off course
years later a similar plane was found in
the area of the bermuda
triangle but because no one could work
out the registration
it was impossible to say for sure if it
was the same one
something even stranger occurred not
long before in 1945
five planes went missing all at the same
time
some trainee pilots were practicing
their navigation skills
but when they finished it seems they
couldn't find their way back home
and disappeared many people assumed they
just ran
out of fuel this seems likely but still
the circumstances were really strange
the trainees were being supervised by an
experienced pilot
who had 2 500 hours of flight time
he would never have let a group of
newbie pilots get that far away from
their base
even now people still debate what could
have happened
some insist the pilots ran into
something supernatural out there in the
bermuda triangle
but who knows and here's another freaky
thing that happened there which no
expert has been able to explain
time travel in 1970 bruce gernon was
flying a plane from andros island to the
florida coast
when he was at 11 500 feet a giant
cloud appeared in front of him it kept
getting bigger and bigger
and he had no choice but to fly through
it
as soon as he did the plane was
surrounded by darkness
it was as if the day had turned to night
in a split second
suddenly bruce began to see white
flashes of light around him
they were so bright that they lit up the
entire sky
but they weren't lightning bolts
although he couldn't really explain
what they were the plane continued
through the strange cloud for almost a
half an hour
bruce noticed that the cloud changed
shape during this time
the space around the plane turned into a
tunnel then the
tunnel started narrowing bruce became
really tense as he tried to cope with
the plane's controls
all his instruments and navigation
equipment were going crazy
and the electronics stopped working then
a white light appeared at the end of the
tunnel just like in the movies the plane
escaped the closing cloud tunnel at the
very last second
everything was fine but now bruce found
himself in some white fog
he had no idea where he was then he
managed to contact ground control
he was shocked when he learned that his
plane was already in the airspace above
miami
it seemed that something impossible had
happened bruce was meant to cover a
distance of about 250 miles during the
flight
this usually took one and a half hours
but he had managed it
in just 47 minutes almost two times
faster than normal when bruce landed he
went to check the amount of fuel left in
the tank
it turned out he'd used up a lot less
than the normal amount of fuel as well
could there be a logical explanation for
the time traveling plane
well records show that a large number of
sunspots were detected on the surface of
the sun that day
and there was a strong solar wind this
could easily have made the electronics
and devices on the plane go crazy
but what about the mysterious cloud the
florida coast is a place where two large
air currents meet
one has a high pressure and the other is
a low pressure one
this causes a lot of storm clouds in the
area but people still debate how bruce
was able to cover the distance so
quickly
some people say that some kind of
mysterious dark energy was involved
others say it was a gravitational
anomaly that curves space and time
others think that bruce is just a fraud
we still don't know the truth
so is there really something
supernatural about the bermuda triangle
or is it all just coincidences and made
up stories
the truth is that no more planes and
ships disappear in the bermuda triangle
than anywhere else in the world